README.md, before:

# NeDRexDB
This repository will contain the code related to building and running NeDRexDB, originally based on the [repotrial/repodb_v2](https://github.com/repotrial/repodb_v2) repository.

Unlike the `repotrial/repodb_v2` repository, this code contains *only* the code related to building and running the NeDRex database. 

## Changes in v2.0.0
Note that the first release from this repository starts at v2.0.0, reflecting the fact that a first version of NeDRexDB exists (from the `repodb_v2` repository). 

### General
- [ ] All code has been refactored and commented to reduce coupling, reduce redundancy, and improve cohesion. This should improve maintainability and readability.
- [ ] Python code has been updated to use Python 3.9 features.

### Changes in node and edge types
- [ ] A new node type, `Phenotype`, has been added to NeDRexDB.
- [ ] A new node type, `GenomicVariant`, has been added to NeDRexDB.
- [ ] A new edge type, `DisorderHasPhenotype`, has been added to NeDRexDB.
- [ ] A new edge type, `VariantAssociatedWithDisorder`, has been added to NeDRexDB.
- [ ] A new edge type, `VariantAffectsGene`, has been added to NeDRexDB.

### Changes in databases
- [ ] Data from BioGRID is now parsed and integrated into NeDRexDB, adding `ProteinInteractsWithProtein` edges.
- [ ] Data from IntAct is now parsed and integrated into NeDRexDB, adding `ProteinInteractsWithProtein` edges.
- [ ] Data from the Comparative Toxicogenomics Database (CTD) is now parsed and integrated into NeDRexDB, adding `DrugHasIndication` edges.
- [ ] Data from the Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) is now parsed and integrated into NeDRexDB, adding `Phenotype` nodes and `DisorderHasPhenotype` edges.
- [ ] Data from ClinVar is now parsed and integrated into NeDRexDB, adding `GenomicVariant` nodes, `VariantAssociatedWithDisorder` edges, and `VariantAffectsGene` edges.
- [ ] Data from dbSNP is now parsed and integrated into NeDRex, adding prevalence data to some `GenomicVariant` nodes.

### Changes in existing parsers and integrations
- [ ] MONDO integration now includes a check for obsolete disorders and no longer include these nodes.
- [ ] Drug Central integration now works on the SQL dump download (rather than requiring a seperate export to CSV outside of the NeDRexDB code).
- [ ] All integrations for edges now include a check to ensure that both nodes involved (source/target or memberOne/memberTwo, as appropriate) exist in NeDRexDB.


## Database orchestration
Database orchestration changes have been added to facilitate automatic updates. This is implemented by setting up a second instance of MongoDB in which NeDRexDB is rebuilt; the database volume of this container then replaces the database volume of the main MongoDB instance<sup>$</sup>, effecting the update.

- [ ] Code to orchestrate docker containers and volumes is now included in this repository.
- [ ] Code to download the latest version of source databases is now included in this repository.

<sup>$</sup> The scheduling of the NeDRexDB update is not included in this repository, because this depends on external factors (e.g., whether any tasks are running in the API).

Commit message:

Updated README.md to a change to Protein nodes
As discussed in Repotrial meeting on 19th August 2021, it would be better if the the displayName for Protein nodes was the "Protein" field that is displayed for proteins on the UniProt website.

README.md, after:

# NeDRexDB
This repository will contain the code related to building and running NeDRexDB, originally based on the [repotrial/repodb_v2](https://github.com/repotrial/repodb_v2) repository.

Unlike the `repotrial/repodb_v2` repository, this code contains *only* the code related to building and running the NeDRex database. 

## Changes in v2.0.0
Note that the first release from this repository starts at v2.0.0, reflecting the fact that a first version of NeDRexDB exists (from the `repodb_v2` repository). 

### General
- [ ] All code has been refactored and commented to reduce coupling, reduce redundancy, and improve cohesion. This should improve maintainability and readability.
- [ ] Python code has been updated to use Python 3.9 features.
- [ ] Tests have been added to ensure database quality.

### Changes in node and edge types
- [ ] A new node type, `Phenotype`, has been added to NeDRexDB.
- [ ] A new node type, `GenomicVariant`, has been added to NeDRexDB.
- [ ] A new edge type, `DisorderHasPhenotype`, has been added to NeDRexDB.
- [ ] A new edge type, `VariantAssociatedWithDisorder`, has been added to NeDRexDB.
- [ ] A new edge type, `VariantAffectsGene`, has been added to NeDRexDB.

### Changes in databases
- [ ] Data from BioGRID is now parsed and integrated into NeDRexDB, adding `ProteinInteractsWithProtein` edges.
- [ ] Data from IntAct is now parsed and integrated into NeDRexDB, adding `ProteinInteractsWithProtein` edges.
- [ ] Data from the Comparative Toxicogenomics Database (CTD) is now parsed and integrated into NeDRexDB, adding `DrugHasIndication` edges.
- [ ] Data from the Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) is now parsed and integrated into NeDRexDB, adding `Phenotype` nodes and `DisorderHasPhenotype` edges.
- [ ] Data from ClinVar is now parsed and integrated into NeDRexDB, adding `GenomicVariant` nodes, `VariantAssociatedWithDisorder` edges, and `VariantAffectsGene` edges.
- [ ] Data from dbSNP is now parsed and integrated into NeDRex, adding prevalence data to some `GenomicVariant` nodes.

### Changes in existing parsers and integrations
- [ ] MONDO integration now includes a check for obsolete disorders and no longer include these nodes.
- [ ] Display names on `Protein` nodes are now the value displayed in the 'Protein' field on the UniProt website (e.g., ["Cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator"](https://www.uniprot.org/uniprot/P13569))
- [ ] Drug Central integration now works on the SQL dump download (rather than requiring a seperate export to CSV outside of the NeDRexDB code).
- [ ] All integrations for edges now include a check to ensure that both nodes involved (source/target or memberOne/memberTwo, as appropriate) exist in NeDRexDB.


## Database orchestration
Database orchestration changes have been added to facilitate automatic updates. This is implemented by setting up a second instance of MongoDB in which NeDRexDB is rebuilt; the database volume of this container then replaces the database volume of the main MongoDB instance<sup>$</sup>, effecting the update.

- [ ] Code to orchestrate docker containers and volumes is now included in this repository.
- [ ] Code to download the latest version of source databases is now included in this repository.

<sup>$</sup> The scheduling of the NeDRexDB update is not included in this repository, because this depends on external factors (e.g., whether any tasks are running in the API).
